 The children can be dismissed for children's church at this time. Amen. Come on, Ayla. They're waiting for you, Ayla. Ashley, it looks like you're starting children's church this morning. All right. Matthew chapter one, and we're going to begin reading in verse 18. Matthew 1, 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. She shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of by of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife, and knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Why Jesus? Because his name means the Lord is salvation, or the Lord saves. For that is the reason for his coming. It is the reason for his birth. It is the reason for our celebration. The Bible tells us in Galatians 4, When the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, under the condemnation of it, that we might be redeemed and set free and forgiven. Forever. The one who came to give his life a ransom for us. For God so loved the world that he gave. His only begotten son. Let's pray once more, Lord. Thank you for this opportunity to look into your word today. Pray, Lord, that you would direct my words, our service. May you be glorified. May you be exalted in our midst today. May you draw souls to the Savior. Lord, thank you for this opportunity and the privilege that we have been given. May you truly be honored this morning. And may you do a mighty work, we pray in Jesus name. Amen. So I'd like to speak for a few minutes this morning. On its our turn to give. Sticking with last week's message in the banquet, I wanted to go into a little more depth on the subject of giving gift giving is a thing at Christmas that most people do Christian or not. But for the believer, it should have a much deeper meaning than for the world. For God so loved the world, he did something. What did he do? He gave. He gave. He gave us his son. Now it is our turn to give. When I was a child, when we were children, our parents gave in most cases, much for us. They gave their lives, their time, their resources, their love in very unselfish ways. When birthdays came, they gave. When Christmas came, they gave. When we needed clothes and food and shelter, they gave and gave again. Many of them worked tedious hours and strenuous jobs day after day to provide for us. My dad worked for 30 years as a wireman for General Electric in Roanoke. It paid OK. And it provided for his family, for his two boys to go attend Christian school and eventually Christian college. He didn't work as a wireman because it was his lifelong dream to wire things together for the rest of his life. He did it because his family needed it. And he did it diligently. And he did it faithfully. And he provided for us not just in the means of money and physical things, but in the means of the world. In the ways of money and physical things, but also in spiritual and other ways that a father should. And as parents often do. Yet, when adult children these days are asked to give back to their parents, they quite often react the same way as we do to God. Rather than with gratitude and love and blessing in return, we heap upon them heartaches and a cold shoulder. That is sadly testament of a culture that has turned its back on God. Some who treat their parents that way and many who treat their God that way. In relation to both our families and our God, it is our turn to give. To receive so much and give nothing or little in return is unthinkable. And God has already given us so much more than we could explain in words. But let's try. Let's look at just a few things that God has given us this morning. Let's start with this one. God gave you life. Apart from the power, wisdom, and love, and will of God, I would not exist. Nor would you. And you know something? I'm glad I exist. I am grateful for the one who gave me life. He gave us life. He made us. Job 33, 4 and Genesis 2, 7 say, The Spirit of God hath made me. The breath of the Almighty hath given me life. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living soul. Scientists to this day cannot explain where life came from. Well, they don't have to. God's told us where life came from. We know where life comes from. I don't have to go to a scientist to find out where life came from. You know, I mean, science is good for some things. It is. It really is necessary. Boy, we enjoy so much. I don't have to go to scientists to find out as where life came from. God gave me life. I am here because of him. I enjoy all of the pleasures of life. Because of him. Without him. No life. Praise the Lord. He gives us. He gives good things. To all of his creatures. Good things. Matthew 5, 44 and 45. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despisefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh his Son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. Anything we enjoy in this life, it came from where? From whom? From God. The air we breathe. The things that these decorations are made from. The sky we look outside and enjoy. The stars in the night sky. The birds. Water we drink. The food we eat. All those good things. They all come from the one who made them all. They come from God. James 1, 17 says, Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. All good things come from him. Now are there bad things in the world? Sure there are bad things in the world. How did that happen? Satan and sin. That's how that happened. No Satan, no sin, no bad things. The good things come from God. The bad things are a result of sin and Satan. I thank God for all the good things. From the air I breathe to the family I enjoy. They all come from him. God gave us his Son. As we mentioned earlier, for God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son. He gave him to us. For us. That we might be redeemed and saved and know him. Christ gave himself for us. He came willingly. He came with a purpose to die on the cross for the sins of a world that had turned their back on him. That he might redeem them and bring them back. Galatians 1,4 and 2 Peter 3,9 who gave himself for our sins. That he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and of our Father. Not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance. God does not want one soul that he created to spend an eternity in hell. He wants everyone to be saved. But part of being created in the image of God means God created us with a will. He did not want robots. He wanted people made in his image who had a choice to love him or to run from him. And when we ran from him he didn't just throw up his hands and say okay well they chose wrong that's it. No. He already had a plan from the foundation of the world to give his Son. To give himself a sacrifice that he might bring us back. And all who put their faith in him shall be saved. If there's nothing else in scripture you can understand, understand this. God gave his only begotten Son. That baby in a manger is not a decoration. He did not stay a baby. He came. He grew up. He ministered. He died. And he rose again and is seated at the right hand of the Father where he ever lives to make intercession for us. Because as he is God he is also man. He is the one mediator between God and man. The man Christ Jesus. You do not have to go to a priest. You do not have to go through Mary. There is only one Jesus Christ the risen Savior. And he gave himself for us. God is a giving and loving God who gave us his most precious treasure his Son. To be a sacrifice for us to die for us to take upon himself our punishment. To pay our debt so that we through faith in him could receive God's greatest gift of all. Salvation and eternal life. What does the Bible say? But God commendeth his love toward us. What's that word commendeth mean? It means he showed expressed his love. Has there been any time that somebody said I love you and you thought hmm I don't know. Because words need to be followed by what? Actions. Love is not just something you say it's something you do. It's something God did. He doesn't just say I love you. He showed expressed that love he demonstrated in sending his son. He demonstrated his love toward us and that while we were yet what? Sinners Christ died for us. God didn't wait for us to have an epiphany and turn around and come back to him. Sadly he knew that was never going to happen unless he intervened. And so he sent his son to earth. He became one of us. He took that all important step of coming to us when we could not come to him. For the wages of sin is death but the what? The gift of God is what? Eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You can have eternal life. You can know the joy and freedom and hope that there is in knowing this world is not all there is. That this life that I live now it's not going to end. I'm going to change addresses. I'm going to get a new body one day and that's a good thing. Several ways that's a good thing. But I have eternal life. I serve a risen Savior. He's up in heaven right now. He went there to prepare a place for me and for you and for all who come to him in faith. That is God's gift. You can't earn it. You can't cleanse yourself. You have to come to Christ. Accept the gift that only God can give. Forgiveness for your sins through faith in him. And the cleansing that only he can give. And the eternal life and hope only he can impart. And you don't get eternal life when you die. You got eternal life when you were born again by faith in Jesus Christ. The life that was taken from you, from us, before we were even born back in the garden of Eden is restored in Jesus Christ our Savior. The relationship that we were robbed of is restored in Jesus Christ. A gift. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Gift. God gives us a record that we might know these things. Here's the record. Here it is. Hold it in my hands. Now been translated into hundreds of different languages. Spread all around the world. You can hold it in a book in your hands. You can read it on your phone anywhere. Download one of dozen different apps on Android or what's that other? Apple. Yeah. But I have an iPhone, so but not anti-Apple. But anyway. But God has given us a record. Preserved it for us. Put it in our own hands and our own language. We can read it for ourselves. You don't have to trust in me. You can trust in the Lord and in his word. You can read it for yourself. You can see if what you're being taught is right or wrong. You don't have to wander around in darkness. God has declared his will to us right here in his word. And he's given us his spirit. I'm getting ahead of myself. To help us in understanding ourselves. John 20, John 20, 31. But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing you might have life through his name. What is John talking about? This right here. We have it. Thanks to God. It's miraculous. Yes, it is. It is his word. And he has given to us his spirit. John 4, 13. 1 John 4, 13. Hereby we know that we dwell in him and he in us because he has given us his what? He has given us his spirit. He is the earnest, the Bible says, of our salvation. He is the first part of that great inheritance that is ours in Christ Jesus. He assures us that there is more to come in heaven. He has sealed us until the day of redemption. And many other things that we are blessed as the church to know and have through his spirit. He has given us all things that we need. 2 Peter 1, 3. According as his divine power hath given to us all things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. What you need to make it through this life. No, yes, you do need physical food. Yes, you do need some water to drink. Yes. But what you need as a person to live and grow and learn and make your way through this life into eternity. It has all been provided for us in his word and his spirit and by his son. You do not need to look other places. If you have Jesus, if you have his word, if you have his spirit, look to him. Be fulfilled in him. Be led by him. Matthew 6, 33 says, But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. You will lack nothing that you need if you will just follow who? If you'll just follow Jesus. He'll see to that. Things of the spiritual nature, things of emotional nature, things of educational nature, things of physical nature. Follow Christ. He might, you know, want you to go to school. You know, he might want you to go do this job or that job or learn this thing or that thing. But just follow Christ. He'll help you. And we can't go wrong. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not into your own understanding and all your ways acknowledge him and he shall what? Direct your paths. That's where it starts. Trust in him. He won't let you down. We let ourselves down. But he won't. We could spend the rest of the service recounting all the Lord has given and done for us, which we are quite of which we are quite undeserving. But let's consider this. Is there anything we can give in return? Yes. Yes, there is. There is nothing you have whereby to earn your salvation. But as a child of God, there is much you have that you can give in his service that you can give out of love and gratitude to bring glory and pleasure to the one who created you. And yes, we were created in his image. We feel pleasure. And so can he. We are told in Revelation we were created for his what? Pleasure. You have much you can give him. You have much to give that metaphorically will put a smile on his face. Romans 12 one says Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. What is Paul saying? Paul says you have something to give. You have something to give. You can present your bodies what? A living sacrifice. Now there are martyrs in this world and there are people that have been called to that. Most of us aren't called to give our bodies a dying sacrifice, but all of us are called to give it a what? A living sacrifice. It is our what? Our reasonable service. Well, why is it reasonable to give your life and your days, your energy, your time, your body in service to God? Why is that? Why isn't that reasonable? Well, we didn't we just that we just go over why that's reasonable. Who gave us this body? Who gave us life? Who gives us time? Who gives us air to breathe? Who gave his son that we might might know him and have forgiveness and eternal life? Who's given us his word and his spirit in all things that we need for his service? He did. Is it not reasonable for us to give in return? Is it not reasonable for children out of love and gratitude to give to their parents? Is it not even more reasonable for us to give back to our God? Isn't it time that we started looking as our relationship with God is our opportunity to give rather than our opportunity to take? We so often treat God like a genie or Santa Claus. He is neither. He is God. He is our Heavenly Father. He is a person. He has a will. He saved you for that purpose. And according to that will, it is our turn to give. I mentioned earlier that word in English, present your bodies. Interestingly enough, it is also be pronounced present, which can mean your present is in your here, or it can mean present is under that thing that you put under the what? The tree on Christmas, a present. Present. To present our bodies to the Lord. Present as a present to the Lord. No strings attached. Out of the goodness and gratitude of our hearts. God deserves a present. He deserves you. He deserves me. I don't know why he wants me. I wouldn't want me. But he gave his son for me. He's redeemed me. And it's my turn. It's our turn. To give to him. First Corinthians 8, 5. Paul writes in Praise of the Macedonians. He says, And this they did not as we hope, but first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. Paul went to Macedonia and asked for them to consider giving an offering back to the church in Jerusalem from whence the gospel had come. The people in Jerusalem were struggling. There was a famine. There's persecution. And he was hoping that they would be willing to give a little out of gratitude to the church in Jerusalem. But more than that, they went beyond that. They gave of themselves. They gave sacrificially. They went beyond, above and beyond the call of duty in a matter of speaking, but really not. Because we can't go above and beyond with God. You cannot out give God. You can never give back to God what God has given to you. But we can give what little we have. We can give of ourselves. It is reasonable. It should be our joy. Not just our duty. If it feels like a duty, then your relationship with your Lord is not what it ought to be. Because it should be a what? It should be a joy. What can we give? What should we give in return? I'm closing just a few things this morning. What can you give? You can give your love, your devotion. Matthew 22, Jesus said, what was the greatest commandment? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. What does God want? He wants your love, your devotion, your allegiance. He deserves it. Does he not? I think he does. We love him because he what? He loved us, 1 John 4, 19. He loved us first. Now it's whose turn? Now it's our turn to show our love. We are worthless indeed if we withhold from him our love, devotion, and allegiance. You can give of your love and your devotion to him. He deserves also our will and our heart. Our will and our heart. Joshua 24, 15. Joshua began that chapter before Israel by recounting all of the things God did for them. Sound familiar? Everything God gave. And he said, now choose you this day what? Whom you will serve. Who are you going to? You're going to serve the gods that your father served in Egypt on the other side of the flood who did nothing for you but cause you heartache and toil and pain? Are you going to give your heart and your will to the gods, the Amorites, the Canaanites, and whose land you are going to dwell who have done nothing for you and can do nothing for you? Or will you give your life, your heart, your will in service to the one who did all these things for you? Now that's an obvious choice, isn't it? He says, for me and my house we will serve who? The Lord. Serve the Lord. Doing his will and not just ours. Matthew 16, 24 and 6, 21 say this, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me for where your treasure is. There will your heart be, what? Also. It's time that we put our will under his will. God doesn't say he wants you to give up all of your will. Your will just has to be put, needs to be put under his will, needs to be directed by his will and his purpose. That's the way it should be. There was a counselor at the camp that we used to take the teens to and as a youth pastor. He taught us a little about counseling young people. He made a little chart, it looked like a Y. And it represented this. The saying that was always on it. Just two choices on the shelf. Pleasing God or pleasing self. Which will you choose? When you get to the point of the, you have to choose which way you're going to choose. Oftentimes pleasing self and pleasing God aren't the same direction. So when you come to those choices in life, which will you choose? We should choose to give our will and our heart to him. Well, why? Well, because he gave his son and his life for us. And also because he never makes mistakes. You'll never go wrong by choosing to place your will under his. Our mind and our body. Well, we can give that to him. This body, this mind, I can give that to him. I know it's not much to give, but I can give it. He desires it. He deserves it. What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and you're not your own, for you're bought with a price? Therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. You know your body became something of value when the Holy Spirit came to live inside of it. You are of great value to him. And you have great potential for him. However many days you have left, would you give your mind, your body, and service to him? Or would we keep it selfishly only for our own pleasure and purpose? How sad that would be. What does Paul say in Romans 12, 1, 2? We read it again. Let's read it again. Again, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy acceptance of God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transcribed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. If you give your mind and your heart, your body, and his service, you will only prove as you see him lead in God, that his way is what? His way is perfect. His way is good. When we refuse, we see our way isn't always so good. The Bible says there's a way that seems right unto a man, but at the end there are other ways of death. God's not going to make those mistakes that we would make. Do you discipline your mind? Do you keep it pure? Are you careful what it takes in and dwells upon? Do you keep control of your body, your tongue included? Do you take care of it and use it in his service? 1 Corinthians 9, 27, Paul says, But I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Paul says, I don't want to waste. I don't want my life to be a waste. I want it to count for something. I want it to count for him. It's my turn to what? It's my turn to give. He gave and gives and will give again. The question is, am I going to give of myself to him? Our time, the Bible says, Ephesians 5, 16, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Will you give your time to worship and pray? Will you give your time to get to know him and his word? To meditate upon it day and night? To serve God? To serve his people? Time is precious, but it's not just your time. It's his time. One day, when we stand at the judgment seat of Christ, what will you have to show with the time that you were given? Did you use your time for things that were just passing away? Did you use it for more eternal valuable things? No, I'm not just talking about coming to church. Maybe some of that time needs to be spent in earning some money, doing something you don't want to do to take care of those that God gave you and made you responsible for. That's valuable use of your time and your money. Maybe it's fixing somebody's car or pulling somebody's weeds. Maybe it's fixing their plumbing. Maybe it's just sending them a card. Maybe it's being there for your wife and your husband. Just being what you can be. Giving of your love to the one God gave you. All of that is part of things that are of eternal value. When you invest yourself in your Lord and you love your neighbor as what? Yourself. Because all this stuff, this iPad, this iPhone, they're passing away. My kids, they're going to live forever. And my spouse, he's going to live forever. And your eternal souls. Let's use our time wisely. The things that make a difference in people's lives. And that may be as simple as fixing their car or painting their house or watching their kids. And then we can give our praise and thanksgiving and testimony. The testimony of our actions and the praise of our lips. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. We owe him that. We owe him the praise of our lips. By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. You did not waste your time this morning by coming to church to sing praises to the one who has given you life. No, you have had the privilege and joy of returning just a little of all that he has given for us. It is worth your time. And it is sad that so many others, even those who profess the name of Christ have given up on giving of that time to the Lord. They are missing out. And they are messing up. What is it that we are celebrating this week? We are celebrating God's gift. And how can you best celebrate God's gift this week and every week? In two ways. Number one, how do you celebrate a gift first of all? You accept it. Why did God give of his son so you would accept him? Why did God offer you eternal life so you would accept it and forgiveness? It brings him great joy when you accept it. When we give gifts to our kids, when we watch them open them and we see the smile on their face, does that not bring you joy? It does. Does it not bring him joy? It does. That is the reason he sent his son. That is the reason he sent his son. Accept his gift before it is eternally too late. Accept his gift. Accept his forgiveness. Accept his love. Accept the sacrifice of his son. Accept eternal life in Jesus Christ. Quit lying to yourself about it. Quit making excuses for not accepting the greatest gift that's ever been given and accept him as your Lord and Savior. Number two, if you have accepted, then give of yourself in his service. Give of yourself in your love and out of your heart and with your time and talent and your lips. We need opportunities this week and next week and this coming year to not just be the requester of things, but to be the giver of things as well. Let's pray. Dearly Father, we thank you, Lord, for the gift of your Son. We thank you, Lord, we can celebrate that today and every day. We pray, Lord, if there's one under the sound of my voice today that has not accepted Christ, we pray that they would see that they're a sinner who needs a Savior and God provided the remedy, the forgiveness, the way out, the way of salvation in Jesus Christ, his Son, who gave his life for them and died and rose again and who offers salvation, forgiveness and eternal life if they will but receive him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Dearly Father, we thank you, Lord, I pray if there's one listening today that is yet to say, Lord, I'm a sinner. I know you died for me. I need you. Please save me and forgive my sins today and be my Lord. I pray that they would do that even now, even today. And come to know the gift and the giver of eternal life. And I pray for us who know you that we would not, that we would be challenged today and every day to see that it is our turn. Rather than spending every day asking what God can do for us, asking what we can do for him. And I hope that will change our life and change our perspective in the days to come as we meditate upon the opportunity that we have been given. In Jesus' name we do pray. Amen.